Current issues ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    1. Peak picking -
        Currently we use prominance based peak picking and we run into the issue where peaks have come in 
        a large range of height/weidth/shape so if we pick a prom small enough to detect small peaks we 
        are going to often get larger peaks split, and our peak-picking is not robust to noise. Conversely
        if we pick a prominance that is too large we lose a lot of the smaller peaks which is also bad for
        untargeted work. We are also dependent on local baselines for s/n calculations so if high signal is 
        for some reason not included in detected peaks (happens with broad, overloaded peaks) it inflates
        local noise and makes other peaks around it not detected.
    2. Peak identification -
        The only metric we use to determine if a peak is a member of the same family/indicitave of the same
        molecule is the m/z we use to collect and the peak's RT.  this comes into the issue where possible
        co-eluding peaks could be picked by accident, or possibly a peak that is overshadowed by the true peak
        in some samples is the peak picked in other samples due to absence of the true peak, in addition to
        not being robust to accidental splitting of peaks.
    
Fixes ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    There are many peak detection/catagorization paradigms in MS - GC, LC and others. To figure out which
    is best, we should test them against one anohter and see how they preform on synthetic and on real
    datasets.

    Paradigms
    1. Prominance -
        What we already have, set a prominance if the peak height is a certain amount higher than the shoulders
        it is accepted as a peak and we move on, then we have noise factor based endpoint detection that could
        also use some shining up, espcially when it comes to overloaded, broad/flat peaks

        - already implemented, big issues come from weirdly-shaped peaks and identify_bounds
        - STEPS:
            1. define prom as w * (median + MAD), where median/MAD are from the array of data itsef, and 
            w is a prominance scaling weight that is toggleable (default of 0.5)
            2. then use scipy's find_peaks here and we get a list of peaks

    2. CWT -
        Continuous Wavelet Transform basd methods have become very popular in recent years for processing 
        chromatographic data.  You use a mexh, gaus2, etc... wavelet which is a general shape that is similar
        to how a peak "should" look.  You slide this wavelet across the signal, and see how well local signal 
        matches the shape, high scores are for peaks and low scores are for valleys (generally).  A scaling
        factor a is used to determine how narrow/tall vs short and wide the peak is, and the better the match
        the higher the score.  Translating into CWT space gives you a matrix of n_scales x n_scans where you 
        have local maxima (ridges) and local minima/zero crossings (valleys) that can be used to estimate the
        point where a peak maximizes and its endpoints using somethign called MSPD (multi-scale peakd detection),
        the "crazy-crawler" algorithm, or persistent homology to determine maxima + endpoints, or maxima 
        respectively. Gives a more informed idea of how well a section of data matches the shape of what we 
        expect a true signal to be.

        - use a SG filter when calculating R, V, Z to remove persistent noise, scaling dynamically with 
        scale (a) due to larger scales tending to strech noise wider and smaller scales preserving high
        frequency noise
        - SG window should be proportional to the scale (a) being smmoothed (if we are smoothing), using the
        doubleodd paradigm (2a + 1) and polynomial order shoudld be set to 1 if window size is <= 3 otherwise
        it can be set to 2
        - STEPS:
            1. Apply CWT transformation to ion trace to produce C matrix (scales set at 1.18 log from 1 to
            38 or 64 with 32 n_scales as default - 64 uninformed guess 38 depending on FWHH of prominance-based
            peak picking of a dataset using lorentzian paradigm of 2.9* max HWHH or gaussian 1.9 * max FWHH)
            2. Calculate R, V, Z (local maxima, local minima/valleys, and zero-crossings) after dynamic SG 
            smoothing on CWT matrix
                need a window (k) to search on either side of a point in calculating R and V, reusing
                the doubleodd logic we would just search floor(a) for a more permissive look and turn to 
                floor(a+0.5) (round-to-nearest) if floor seems too permissive
            3. Group ridges based on R, starting from low a moving to high a we find the peak locations as
            columns where R is True/1, if row i has a 1 at column j, then look to row i+1 and see if there is
            a 1 in range [j-1,j+1], if so then add that new i,j to the ridge's list, if not then increment 
            gap_counter for that ridge by 1, if gap_coutner reaches 3 terminate the ridge
            4. Now with ridges we want to discard any rdiges less than a specific length (undetermined as of
            right now, but we can use these ridges in later noise modeling) and for the rest of the ridges
            find the column where the largest count of maxima exist, then find the highest value in C in that
            column and move outwards from that position in V and Z matrices finding the nearset valley or zero-
            crossing on either side as n,m endpoints, store these endpoints as well as the absolute maximum 
            C value present in the ridge and the scale at which it maximizes
                need to calculate S/N ratio as well, but from CWT space rather than our old raw data approach
                noise comes from a local window of C values at a=1, we set window size dynamically based on 
                the scale at which the maximal C 
            5. go to raw data between scans n and m, use SG filter window = doubleodd where a = scale where
            C maximizes for this ridge (that we recorded) to find the peak max, now we have a list of maxima,
            C (~intensity), a (~FWHH or width) and estimated endpoints to feed into our find_maxima method 
            with some changes (specifically with respect to identify_bounds use) 

    3. Network-based -
        Generate an embedding of local signal (Savitzky-Golay, CWT coefficeint vectors (w/ row-wise normalzation),
        tsfresh automatic feature extraction, shapelets/SAX, possible PCA or machine learning option) so that 
        each scan is a node in the network.  Generate a network using kNN etc... and use this to seperate noise 
        points from signal points using clustering/classification algorihtms, and then find maxima/refine endpoints
        within these signal sections of the data.

    4. Random Forest/Tree-Ensembl Classification -
        Generate embeddigns like #3, but this time use a random forset as a supervised classifier that is trained
        to differentiate signal from noise, essentially an extension of #3.

    5. CNN/deep-learning approaches -
        Have seen some traction lately, with some approaches reaching >99% accuracy in peak detection with very
        low false positive rates.  Several poitons, 1D CNN/TCN/U-Net looking at per-timpoint semantic segmentation
        directly on raw data.  Could also start with a 2D CWT transforml ike in #2 then run a 2D CNN over it to 
        detect features and estimate maxima/bounds.  Finally object-detection-style architecures (YOLO, Faster
        R-CNN) for direct peak localization with bounding boxes.

Datsets ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It would serve us well to find consistent datasets to use in order to test methods/train ML algorihtms.  We 
have a couple of options, but fundamentally the testing should be done first on synthetic datasets, allowing
us to have precise control over where peaks start, end, and maximize.  We can either take a Monte-Carlo approach,
as specified in "Monte-Carlo Wavelet Analysis for Objective Peak Detection in SRM LC-MS/MS Analyis" by 
Randall K Juilain, Jr, et al.  Build an explicit nosie model (chemical and electrical) then add this to a generally
gaussian peak we draw in order to get realistic noise, althernatively take the approach used in the GCMSformer 
paper (we use this algorithm to deconvolde co-eluting peaks) "GCMSFormer: A fully automatic method for resolution
of overlapping peaks in Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry" by Zixuan Guo et al. Need to review their methods,
but they trained a very good model on synthetic data so they probably have a good idea how to generate it. It is
also important to note that the algorithm discussed in "WiPP: Workflow for Improved peak picking for gas-chromatography
-Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS) Data" by Nico Borgsmuller et al. classifies peaks into 7 shape catagories, and if we
are generating synthetic data we should ensure that all the peaks we generate are not simply perfectly gaussian,
and some have other messier shapes to them in order to reflect real data.  We should then also pick a validated
datset from online which has published results so we can see how the paradigms preform on that, as well as to
compare our full pipeline to other, modern competitors.

Main Competitors -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Benchmark Against:
        AMDIS
        MS-DIAL
        XCMS
        AntDAS-CPR

    Optionally Include:
        WiPP
        MassCube

Noise Model ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have paried baseline and noise models now, still need to write them to disk for later loading/sampling
    Metrics to plot:
        area under BL vs MAD noise
        Euclidean/Manhattan/Cos distance between BL arrays?
        n peaks vs area under Bl 
        n peaks vs MAD noise
        hihgest area under BL and highest MAD noise rows (top 10)
        n noise points vs n signal points
        n fewest noise points ions (top 10)
    
We still need to work on the peak model now, we don't need to align peaks for this (implement later).  We will
take peaks and sample amplitude (height) 